# Regression-analysis
The homework assignment on regression modeling
In this project, we analyzed various global World development indicators (WDIs) for 177 countries for the 2010 year. We considered 17 the most important indicators from different categories and analyzed how they influence on the Fragile State Index (FSI). We discovered that there are four the most significant indicators which explain 80% of FSI variance: Proportion of the children enrolled in the primary school, Number of Internet users, Proportion of the people with access to the water and Urban population. The interesting fact is that the Number of Internet users and FSI has the lowest negative correlation among other variables, and hence the negative linear relationship. The simplest linear regression model with only this one variable explains 74% of FSI variance, and thus this indicator is the most significant for FSI prediction.

We performed missing values imputation, correlation analysis, we built a linear regression model for FSI based on various WDIs, checked collinearity and heteroskedasticity and also run RESET test to find quadratic and cubic components for the model. 

FSI is calculated by the independent company Fund for Peace and requires a lot of expertise and comprehensive analysis. In this project, we showed that it is possible to built statistical model for FSI based on only four publicly available WDI variables which explain 80% of FSI changes. In further works, it would be a good direction to consider other 970 different WDIs and build a more complicated model to improve the prediction of FSI.
